--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "Quick start developing for Android using SDK" date: 2009-07-29 categories:

* "android"
* "cheat-sheet"
* "developer"
* "developing"
* "example"
* "hello-world"
* "mobile"
* "phone"
* "sdk"
* "simple"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.

 Download Android SDK from http://developer.android.com/[1] (.180MB file)
2.

 Extract to c:\android
3.

 Download Eclipse IDE for Java EE dev from http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/[2] (.180MB file)
4.

 Extract to c:\eclipse
5.

 Start – Run – type: cmd
6.

 Type --> Cd \ - CD android – CD tools
7.

 Type --> android create avd --target 2 --name my_avd
8.

 Hit enter
9.

 Right click My computer - properties - advanced - Environment Variables - Under System Variables add ;c:\android\tools
10.

 OK / OK
11.

 Run c:\eclipse\eclipse.exe
12.

 Click OK
13.

 Click Help
14.

 Click Install new software
15.

 Add
16.

 Name = Android
17.

 Location = https://dl-ssl.google.com/android/eclipse/[3]

.18. OK

19.

 Wait for it to finish "Pending"
20.

 Click Developer Tools
21.

 Click Next
22.

 Click Next
23.

 Read the T&C's
24.

 Click I accept
25.

 Click Finish
26.

 Click yes to Restart Eclipse
27.

 Click OK
28.

 Click Windows - Preferences
29.

 Click android
30.

 Click browse
31.

 Browse to c:\android
32.

 Click Apply/OK
33.

 Click File/New/Project/Android/Android project
34.

 Package Name: hello
35.

 Select Android 1.1
36.

 Applicationame = helloworld
37.

 PackageName = hello.world
38.

 Create Activity = hello
39.

 Min SDK Version: 2
40.

 Expand out Hello > src > Hello.World > Hello.Java
41.

 Paste over the current code visible in the centre of the screen:

> package Hello.World;
> 
> import android.app.Activity;
> 
> import android.os.Bundle;
> 
> import android.widget.TextView;
> 
> public class hello extends Activity {
> 
> /** Called when the activity is first created. */
> 
> @Override
> 
> public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
> 
> super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
> 
> TextView tv = new TextView(this);
> 
> tv.setText("Hello, Android");
> 
> setContentView(tv);
> 
> }
> 
> }

42.

 Click Run / Run / Android Application
43.

 Click Yes to save changes
44.

 Wait quite a while – Tada…

=> http://developer.android.com/ 1: http://developer.android.com/
=> http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ 2: http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/
=> https://dl-ssl.google.com/android/eclipse/ 3: https://dl-ssl.google.com/android/eclipse/