--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "Top 10 tools for learning" date: 2009-08-07 categories:

* "top10"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1 – Primary School Teaching – Share and rate teaching resources 2 – Primary Blogger[1] – Free blogging for schools (Wordpress) 3 – TED[2] – Inspirational talks on important matters 4 - School Email[3] – Email system that does everything a school needs 5 – Miro – Great way to get video content 6 – MySchoolClosures – Simple way to inform parents and teachers if a school is closed 7 – Facebook[4] – For when I’m stuck and willing to wait 8 – Twitter[5] – For when I’m stuck and not willing to wait! 9 – Picasa[6]–I love to share my pictures easily 10 – Primary Games Arena[7] – This one is the kids favorite, not mine.

I wanted to put in applications that I think are great for teachers now and will be great in the future. Just to emphasize that point, the list is focused at tools for teachers not pupils. This list is more of a "Top 10 tools for empowering teachers to provide learning".

All are cloud/web applications and I think that says something!

What do you think?

Arghhh, I published this then I realised I missed out Primary School Safe Search[8], I take this tool for granted but it is awesome.

=> http://PrimaryBlogger.co.uk 1: http://PrimaryBlogger.co.uk
=> http://TED.com 2: http://TED.com
=> http://SchoolEmail.co.uk 3: http://SchoolEmail.co.uk
=> http://Facebook.com 4: http://Facebook.com
=> http://Twitter.com 5: http://Twitter.com
=> http://Picasa.google.com 6: http://Picasa.google.com
=> http://PrimaryGamesArena.com 7: http://PrimaryGamesArena.com
=> http://PrimarySchoolict.com 8: http://PrimarySchoolict.com