--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "PrimaryBlogger Updates" date: 2011-09-11 categories:

* "ict"
* "primary-schools"
* "primary-schools-ict"
* "primary-technology"
* "primaryblogger"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

It’s been a long two weeks. We’ve moved PrimaryBlogger over to our new servers and hopefully you’ll now have a more stable and fast experience with your blogs. You’ll also see a lot of changes happening graphically and functionality wise to improve your overall experience of PrimaryBlogger.

Heres a list of the things we’re currently doing and are looking at for the future:

*

 Soon, we’ll be starting polls and asking for feedback for any changes you would like to see or improve upon, be it themes, plugins or something else.
*

 To improve overall speed of the site we’ve turned off some of the plugins we use by default, don’t worry you can still enable them in the plugins section in the wp-admin area.
*

 We’ve added the ability to remove your user account if you so wish.
*

 More spam fighting tools.
*

 Use PrimaryBlogger to host your school’s website.
*

 PrimaryBlogger custom themes.
*

 New PrimaryBlogger website coming soon.
*

 PrimaryBlogger Pro and other packages coming soon.
*

 A better PrimaryBlogger support website coming soon.

We hope you enjoy everything we’ve done, let us know any feedback in the comments[1], Twitter[2], Primary Technology answers forum[3] or by email[4].

=> http://blog.primaryt.co.uk/2011/09/11/primaryblogger-new-updates/#respond 1: http://blog.primaryt.co.uk/2011/09/11/primaryblogger-new-updates/#respond
=> http://twitter.com/#!/PrimaryBlogger 2: http://twitter.com/#!/PrimaryBlogger
=> http://ask.primaryt.co.uk/ 3: http://ask.primaryt.co.uk/
=> http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html 4: http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html