--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "Creations" date: 2010-03-10

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Organizations

Primary Technology[1] - Schools ICT services.  Majority Shareholder.

Mclear[2] - The parent company that's making your finger smarter.  Sold majority share to MTG Co. Ltd.   Minority Shareholder

## Technical

Wordpress Varnish VCL config[3] - A VCL config that enables scaling of Wordpress using Varnish Cache.

## Concepts

Eyes to the front[4] - A classroom application for rewarding pupil attention

Project XPA[5] - An experience points platform.

## Historical / sold

Primary School Teaching[6] - Teacher resource sharing run by a community of teachers.  Discontinued.

Primary Box[7] - Really real time secrets.  Discontinued.

Schools Web 2 catalogue[8] - A searchable collection of Web2 resources for Primary School Educators.  Discontinued.

Super Trumps - Web-based hero/avatar creator and comparison game designed for schools.  Discontinued.

Primary School TV wordpress plug-in / widget[9] - A simple wordpress plug-in for embedding the latest videos from Primary School TV.  Discontinued.

Profanity filter API[10] - A simple profanity filter API that detects curse words and returns a score based on the naughtiness of the string (English language only).  Discontinued.

Primary Paint[11] - Really real time collaborative painting built on Scribblar[12] technology.  Discontinued.

Satpin[13] - Simple link sharing for KS1.  Discontinued.

Primary School TV[14] - Safe online video for Primary Schools.  Discontinued.

Free online autocue software[15] - A free online autocue / teleprompter and i wrote a jQuery plugin to compliment it.  Discontinued.[16]

Primary School important Events[17] (UK focused) - Dates for important events such as Christmas, New year, and special days such as aids awareness day.  Discontinued.

PrimaryWall[18] - Collaborative sticky notes designed with simplicity in mind.  Discontinued.

Classdroid[19] - An Android application reviewing, grading and publishing pupils class work.  Discontinued.

SearchyPants[20] - Customizable Safe Search engine.  Discontinued.

Primary School Avatar comparison tool[21] - A tool built with Isotope that shows different outputs of various avatar creators so you can pick one that suits your personal style.  Discontinued.

NFC Ring[22] - Your Finger, Smarter.  Sold to MTG Co. Ltd.

Etherpad foundation[23] - The foundation behind the Etherpad open source software.  Resigned from board 2022.  Absorbed by SFC.

Visa Payment Ring[24] - A ring that can be used to make payments.  Sold to MTG Co. Ltd.

Primary Pad[25] - Really real time collaborative text editing built on Etherpad[26] technology.  Discontinued.

Primary Games Arena[27] - Hundreds of categorized educational games run by a community of teachers.  Discontinued.

School Holidays[28] - A site to publish and find your school holiday dates[29].  Discontinued.

Primary / School Email[30] - The UKs #1 school email service.  Discontinued.

Primary Blogger[31] - Free blogging service for primary schools built on Wordpress.[32]  Discontinued.

Free online pictogram creator[33] - A free online pictogram creator/editor/generator aka pictograph & pictogramme.  Discontinued.

Random Name Selector[34] - A random person / name / item selector designed to be used at Teachmeets and also useful to use to pick something random in the classroom.  Discontinued.

Primary Games Arena Plugin / Widget[35] - A simple wordpress plug-in for embedding the latest games from Primary Games Arena.  Discontinued.

BrainPOP Wordpress plug-in[36] - A simple Wordpress plug-in for embedding BrainPOP content.  Discontinued.

Primary School Safe Search[37] - Safe internet search built on Google[38] technology run by a community of teachers.  Discontinued.

=> http://primaryt.co.uk 1: http://primaryt.co.uk
=> http://mclear.com 2: http://mclear.com
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2011/10/05/wordpress-varnish-cache-config-vcl/ 3: https://mclear.co.uk/2011/10/05/wordpress-varnish-cache-config-vcl/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/sites/eyes-to-the-front-classroom-software-concept/ 4: https://mclear.co.uk/sites/eyes-to-the-front-classroom-software-concept/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/sites/xparena-a-decentralized-learning-reward-platform/ 5: https://mclear.co.uk/sites/xparena-a-decentralized-learning-reward-platform/
=> http://primaryschoolteaching.co.uk 6: http://primaryschoolteaching.co.uk
=> http://primarybox.com 7: http://primarybox.com
=> http://primaryschoolict.com/web2.php 8: http://primaryschoolict.com/web2.php
=> https://mclear.co.uk/primarytv-wordpress-plugin/ 9: https://mclear.co.uk/primarytv-wordpress-plugin/
=> http://wiki.primaryt.co.uk/profanity-filter-api/ 10: http://wiki.primaryt.co.uk/profanity-filter-api/
=> http://primarypaint.co.uk 11: http://primarypaint.co.uk
=> http://www.scribblar.com 12: http://www.scribblar.com
=> http://satpin.com 13: http://satpin.com
=> http://primaryschool.tv 14: http://primaryschool.tv
=> http://primaryschoolict.com/autoCue/ 15: http://primaryschoolict.com/autoCue/
=> https://github.com/johnyma22/autoCue 16: https://github.com/johnyma22/autoCue
=> http://primaryschoolict.com/dates.php 17: http://primaryschoolict.com/dates.php
=> http://primarywall.com 18: http://primarywall.com
=> https://mclear.co.uk/sites/classdroid/ 19: https://mclear.co.uk/sites/classdroid/
=> http://searchypants.com/ 20: http://searchypants.com/
=> http://primaryschoolict.com/avatars/ 21: http://primaryschoolict.com/avatars/
=> http://nfcring.com 22: http://nfcring.com
=> http://etherpad.org 23: http://etherpad.org
=> http://etherpad.org 24: http://etherpad.org
=> http://primarypad.com 25: http://primarypad.com
=> http://etherpad.org 26: http://etherpad.org
=> http://primarygamesarena.com 27: http://primarygamesarena.com
=> http://myschoolholidays.com 28: http://myschoolholidays.com
=> http://myschoolholidays.com 29: http://myschoolholidays.com
=> http://schoolemail.co.uk 30: http://schoolemail.co.uk
=> http://primaryblogger.co.uk 31: http://primaryblogger.co.uk
=> http://wordpress.org 32: http://wordpress.org
=> http://primaryschoolict.com/pictograph/ 33: http://primaryschoolict.com/pictograph/
=> http://primaryschoolict.com/random-name-selector 34: http://primaryschoolict.com/random-name-selector
=> http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/top-5-educational-flash-interactive-games-for-schools/ 35: http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/top-5-educational-flash-interactive-games-for-schools/
=> http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/brainpop-uk-learning-video/ 36: http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/brainpop-uk-learning-video/
=> http://primaryschoolict.com 37: http://primaryschoolict.com
=> http://google.com/cse 38: http://google.com/cse