--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "5 reasons you may regret using posterous" date: 2011-02-23 categories:

* "primary-school"
* "primary-school-ict"
* "wordpress"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Actually this is more of a Wordpress vs posterous..

1. **Posterous is a closed source platform**, if you don't get closed vs open source yet then I recommend you do some reading because open source[1] is the corner stone of 99% of the successful publishing platforms used long term on the internet.

2. **You can't export your posterous blog to an xml file**, you can get your blog posts[2] but you cant export comments etc. so if you move you will lose data.

3. Did you even know you can **post to a wordpress blog via email**[3]? Just saying... Cos y'know most people don't...

4. Applications have a natural growth pattern, posterous will eventually want to compete with the big boys and in turn **will become a complex beast** which is probably the reason you avoided other blog platforms..

5. You can't assign **plugins or widgets** ie the fantastic CBBC news feed, Primary Games Arena or BrainPOP UK widgets.

Basically posterous is a short term solution that might get you started blogging but I warn you not to invest too much time into it because when you decide to move away you are going to lose data.

I believe in a) open source and b) teachers using long term solutions to problems as to reduce head ache in the future. So yep, I'm biased as I run a wordpress blog site but I also feel like no one has proper addressed this issue.  It is really easy to move from posterous to a wordpress blog provider such as PrimaryBlogger[4], just use the import tool.

=> http://opensourceschools.org.uk/ 1: http://opensourceschools.org.uk/
=> http://mikecampbell.posterous.com/how-to-backup-your-posterous-blog 2: http://mikecampbell.posterous.com/how-to-backup-your-posterous-blog
=> http://codex.wordpress.org/Post_to_your_blog_using_email 3: http://codex.wordpress.org/Post_to_your_blog_using_email
=> http://primaryblogger.co.uk 4: http://primaryblogger.co.uk