--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "Primary School Google Apps – User accounts and domains" date: 2009-11-24 categories:

* "apps"
* "google"
* "ict"
* "primary"
* "primary-email"
* "primary-school-email"
* "primary-school-ict"
* "school-email"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Deciding how your user accounts will be set up**

You have 3 options:

1. You can manually create each user account, this can be very time consuming but may be suitable if you are only providing teachers with accounts.

AND/OR

**2.** You can use a CSV export from your school Management information system (IE SIMS, CMIS, Integris, Scholarpack). With this method you annually update your user accounts with just a few clicks.

OR

**3.** Our recommendation is that you use a school single sign on solution such as Primary Logon or any Shibboleth service tied to the UK Federation. Your LA may already be providing you with a Single Sign On solution so ask them first, if they aren’t then just register for Primary Logon. Single Sign on from Primary Logon automatically updates pupil and teacher accounts daily from your school MIS.

**Deciding on a domain**

A domain is your address on the internet. Schools frequently purchase theirschoolname.com IE wilsdenprimary.com. A new managed domain will cost £50 or so a year from Primary Technology or you can use your current existing domain which may be a .*Gfl.ac.uk or .sch.uk. UK schools probably don't need to buy a new domain! You can also buy a domain for £10 or so per year from Godaddy but you will have to manage the DNS settings yourself. You **need** to have a domain.

I have decided to ask Primary Technology to configure my Google Apps for me.

Buy a new domain from Godaddy and make DNS changes myself à http://godaddy.com[1]

Buy a new managed domain (£50) à http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html[2]

I don’t know my control panel Login credentials, please help me![3] à[4]https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/[5]

I am going to contact my DNS provider and ask them to make the changes[6] à[7]

I have bought a new domain from an ISP and I am going to make the changes myself[8] à[9]

=> http://godaddy.com/ 1: http://godaddy.com/
=> http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html 2: http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/ 3: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/ 4: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/ 5: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/ 6: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/ 7: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/ 8: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/ 9: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/configuring-dns-cname-records-for-google-apps-education-edition/