--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "Orange to Orange [ISP] connectivity" date: 2011-07-26 categories:

* "review"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Orange have a problem where you can't connect from one Orange ISP customer to another. It appears to spur from when Orange "upgrade" your line.

This is a problem if: a) Your friend is hosting a game you want to join [Terraria in this case] b) You want to remote desktop to your home from your friends house. c) You need to do any form of connectivity between yourself and your friend/family/other orange customer.

**Is it really an upgrade if it causes problems?** Many people have said the Orange upgrade is actually a downgrade, I haven't noticed any difference in speed or latency, check out the orange problems forum if you have this issue.

**What are Orange doing about it?** It looks like nothing. I don't think they have the ability/knowledge to fix this, I think they have to depend on subcontactors/BT so they are probably waiting on a response from the Cisco guys there.

**What can you do about it?** Orange aren't actually providing a service that falls inside their own T's and C's[needs citation] so you are within your rights to ask for a refund but you will need to be able to show evidence of inter-connectivity failing.

**Should you leave Orange?** That's up to you. I'm not going to. I'm going to email orange customer support, show them evidence of the failure (in the forms of route failures) and inform them I will be requesting a refund for the months where my internet connectivity has failed.

**How can you test if this is the problem?** Contact me[1] and I will give you some tests that you can run.

=> https://mclear.co.uk/contact 1: https://mclear.co.uk/contact