--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "About me" date: 2008-10-15 categories:

* "about-me"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Looking for my Availability or Free/Busy information? Click on me![1]

Looking for my list of presentations?  Click here.[2]

I'm passionate about creating ICT services that can be used worldwide by anyone at any time. I work with a large team of devoted professionals to try to accomplish this.

I was born and raised in Bradford, UK. My schooling began at Heaton St Barnabas and proceeded to Dixons CTC. After discovering at an early age that I wanted to work with ICT I studied various programming languages and began working as a Technical support provider when I was 18. I now contribute to various open source projects as well as running two school ICT service provider companies.

My role in different organizations has been interesting and challenging. I have had the opportunity to manage large teams of some extremely skilled people so far and have enjoyed each challenge thoroughly, no matter how frustrating!

If you want to use a picture of me you are legally required to request my permission. If permission has been granted then please use one of these photos.[3] If permission has not yet been granted then please get in touch.

Some of the projects I'm involved with:

Primary Games Arena[4]

My School Closures[5]

School Email[6]

And many more!

There is quite a lot of people who have given a level of support beyond the normal call of duty that I need to thank, so this is my Thank you list!

Phil McLear

Mark Fisher

Dave Firth

Adam Mawson

Tom Hudson

Tina Housley

John and Chris Leech

Chris Rex

Steve Glover

Margaret Vass

James Langley

Sparky

Mark Ellis

Andy Cairns

Sharon Dominik

Michael Latham

Ewan Fairweather

And some online folks:

Jet

Dael

Mes

Vikas

Brett

Heavy

Lots of people on IRC -- too many to mention...

Application experience:

Microsoft Exchange (2k+)[7]

Shibboleth (SP & IDP)[8]

Wordpress (MU)[9]

Nagios (2+)[10]

Spamassassin[11]

MySQL[12]

Apache[13]

Postfix[14]

Google Apps[15]

Google Analytics[16]

Elgg[17]

VMware ESX(i)[18]

Etherpad[19]

Languages:

PHP[20]

ASP[21]

Perl[22]

HTML / CSS

Javascript

VB(+s)

Powershell

Looking to buy me a gift?

Click here[23]

=> http://www.mclear.co.uk/2009/12/free-busy-availability.html 1: http://www.mclear.co.uk/2009/12/free-busy-availability.html
=> http://www.mclear.co.uk/p/presentations.html 2: http://www.mclear.co.uk/p/presentations.html
=> http://picasaweb.google.com/johnyma22/OfficialUsagePhotos 3: http://picasaweb.google.com/johnyma22/OfficialUsagePhotos
=> http://primarygamesarena.com/ 4: http://primarygamesarena.com/
=> http://myschoolclosures.com/ 5: http://myschoolclosures.com/
=> http://schoolemail.co.uk/ 6: http://schoolemail.co.uk/
=> http://microsoft.com/exchange 7: http://microsoft.com/exchange
=> http://shibboleth.internet2.edu/ 8: http://shibboleth.internet2.edu/
=> http://wordpress.org/ 9: http://wordpress.org/
=> http://nagios.org/ 10: http://nagios.org/
=> http://spamassassin.org/ 11: http://spamassassin.org/
=> http://mysql.com/ 12: http://mysql.com/
=> http://apache.org/ 13: http://apache.org/
=> http://www.postfix.org/ 14: http://www.postfix.org/
=> http://google.com/a 15: http://google.com/a
=> http://google.com/analytics 16: http://google.com/analytics
=> http://elgg.org/ 17: http://elgg.org/
=> http://vmware.com/ 18: http://vmware.com/
=> http://etherpad.com/ 19: http://etherpad.com/
=> http://php.net/ 20: http://php.net/
=> http://asp.net/ 21: http://asp.net/
=> http://perl.org/ 22: http://perl.org/
=> http://www.corneyandbarrow.com/p-6187-sauvignon-blanc-eradus-2008.aspx? 23: http://www.corneyandbarrow.com/p-6187-sauvignon-blanc-eradus-2008.aspx?