--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "Primary School Google Apps Education Edition Preparation" date: 2009-11-24 categories:

* "apps"
* "google"
* "ict"
* "primary"
* "primary-email"
* "primary-school-email"
* "primary-school-ict"
* "school-email"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Deciding which Google Apps you will use**

We recommend schools do not use Google Mail for Email but use Primary Email[1] instead. This is for child protection and educational reasons. If you decide to use Shibboleth (UK Federation login) then you can use single sign on to log onto both services seamlessly.

Your App options are Docs, Mail, Calendar, Sites and Chat. For more information each of these apps please visit http://google.com/a/[2]

**Decide if you will do all the work or ask someone to do it for you**

1. Pay someone to do this for you. Contact Primary Technology[3] using the contact details on http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html[4] requesting assistance setting up Google Apps. You are done reading if you have chosen this option.

OR 2. Handle the process yourself but ask your DNS provider or web hosting provider to make the relevant DNS changes. There is usually not a charge involved with this but it can be a bit tricky.

OR 3. Gain access to your DNS control panel and do all of the procedure yourself. Warning: This is quite technically challenging. There is no charge for this but it takes a few hours if it’s the first time you have done it.

**If you chose option 2 or 3 then continue to deciding on your user accounts and domains.[5]** **à[6]**

=> http://primaryemail.co.uk 1: http://primaryemail.co.uk
=> http://google.com/a/ 2: http://google.com/a/
=> http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html 3: http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html
=> http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html 4: http://primaryt.co.uk/contact.html
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/primary-school-google-apps-%e2%80%93-user-accounts-and-domains/ 5: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/primary-school-google-apps-%e2%80%93-user-accounts-and-domains/
=> https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/primary-school-google-apps-%e2%80%93-user-accounts-and-domains/ 6: https://mclear.co.uk/2009/11/24/primary-school-google-apps-%e2%80%93-user-accounts-and-domains/