--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "Getting Value from Visualisers" date: 2011-04-27 categories:

* "handheld"
* "ict"
* "ipevo"
* "p2v"
* "primary-schools"
* "primary-schools-ict"
* "primary-technology"
* "shop-primaryt-co-uk"
* "visualiser"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Visualisers are a fairly hot topic within primary schools right now and with some visualisers having a price tag over £300 it’s definitely a purchase that needs some justification.

Primary T bought a selection of visualisers from different manufacturers to test and came out with a shock winner which was the Ipevo Point 2 View USB Document Camera. Priced at a staggeringly low £44 it checked all the boxes and was the clear winner. The Ipevo comes buddled with simple software and a fully adjustable stand to produces a remarkably clear and crisp autofocused image  of a much higher quality than other more expensive visualisers (some more than 6 times the price!)

The Ipevo P2v isn’t widely available in the UK yet but is stocked in the Primary T online shop at http://shop.primaryt.co.uk[1].

And just to prove it’s not just us that loves the Ipevo we asked a local school to test it for us too, this is what they had to say:

“We were recently asked to test the new Ipevo P2V Visualizer. On opening the box, we were astounded by its small size and easy portability. The device plugs into the usb port and worked straight out of the box with no need for any software installation, making it very easy to move between classrooms. There was no need for any training as the device was very intuitive and both teachers and students were delighted with its ease of use. The picture quality for such a small device was excellent and we were surprised at the zooming capabilities it has. Taking still images using the button on the device can be a little fiddly but you can simply click on screen to capture the image, making it much simpler. All in all, if you are looking for a low cost, easy to use, infinitely portable imaging device, then we would definitely recommend one of these.”

=> http://shop.primaryt.co.uk/Ipevo-P2V-visualiser 1: http://shop.primaryt.co.uk/Ipevo-P2V-visualiser