--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

title: "5 Fantastic Internet / E-Safety resources - #education" date: 2009-08-28 categories:

* "e-safety"
* "internet-safety"
* "links"
* "primary-school-safe-search"
* "resources"
* "safety"
* "teacher"
* "teaching"
* "week"

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Safer Practice with Technology** - http://www.kenttrustweb.org.uk/UserFiles/CW/File/Advisory\_Service\_ICT/E-Safety/SaferPracticeWithTechnology-260509.pdf[1] - For adults working in schools, this document covers using technology as a communication tool in professional relationships, protecting adults from minteration of behvaiour and understanding personal and professional boundaries.

**North Yorkshire County Council – E-safety Links and Resources** - http://content.yudu.com/Library/A1dk37/esafetyApril09/resources/index.htm?referrerUrl=http://www.yudu.com/item/details/74728/e-safety--April-09-%3Frefid%3D18007[2] – This site is a selection of recommended sites to use to delivery E-Safety in schools.

**Internet Safety @ Next Generation Learning** - http://www.nextgenerationlearning.org.uk/At-Home/Internet-safety/[3] - Here you will find links to lots of resources on internet safety. The content is aimed at both home and school and has resources for parents and children.

**E-safety week** - http://www.esafetyweek.info/[4] - I love this idea. E-Safety can affect every aspect of our lives so to introduce it across an entire week seems fantastic. This site is made by Oldham and provides a framework for other LA’s to do similar exercises.

**Primary School Safe Search** - http://primaryschoolict.com/[5] - A google powered safe search engine that gets educational results more accurately. Great for setting as pupils and teachers home page. I like this site because it’s not so much a teaching resource as a learning aid.

=> http://www.kenttrustweb.org.uk/UserFiles/CW/File/Advisory_Service_ICT/E-Safety/SaferPracticeWithTechnology-260509.pdf 1: http://www.kenttrustweb.org.uk/UserFiles/CW/File/Advisory_Service_ICT/E-Safety/SaferPracticeWithTechnology-260509.pdf
=> http://content.yudu.com/Library/A1dk37/esafetyApril09/resources/index.htm?referrerUrl=http://www.yudu.com/item/details/74728/e-safety--April-09-%3Frefid%3D18007 2: http://content.yudu.com/Library/A1dk37/esafetyApril09/resources/index.htm?referrerUrl=http://www.yudu.com/item/details/74728/e-safety--April-09-%3Frefid%3D18007
=> http://www.nextgenerationlearning.org.uk/At-Home/Internet-safety/ 3: http://www.nextgenerationlearning.org.uk/At-Home/Internet-safety/
=> http://www.esafetyweek.info/ 4: http://www.esafetyweek.info/
=> http://primaryschoolict.com/ 5: http://primaryschoolict.com/